[E&A] Refine more pages in querying section (#313)
elastic/docs-content: explore-analyze/query-filter/tools/console.md

$$$configuring-console$$$

$$$import-export-console-requests$$$

**Console** lets you interact with [{{es}} APIs](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/rest-apis.html) and [{{kib}} APIs](https://www.elastic.co/docs/api) from within {{kib}}.

:::{image} ../../../images/kibana-console.png
:alt: Console
:class: screenshot
:::

To go to **Console**, find **Dev Tools** in the navigation menu or use the [global search bar](../../../get-started/the-stack.md#kibana-navigation-search).

You can also find Console directly on certain Search solution and Elasticsearch serverless project pages, where you can expand it from the footer. This Console, called **Persistent Console**, has the same capabilities and shares the same history as the Console in **Dev Tools**.

:::{image} ../../../images/kibana-persistent-console.png
:alt: Console
:class: screenshot
:::

## Write requests [console-api]

> **Console** understands commands in a cURL-like syntax. For example, the following is a `GET` request to the {{es}} `_search` API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Console** accepts commands in a simplified syntax similar to HTTP requests. For example, the following `GET` request calls the {es} `_search` API:
```
